[VEN-1881]: XVS Bridge Documentation (#77)
VenusProtocol/venus-protocol-documentation: technical-reference/reference-technical-articles/technical-doc-xvs-bridge.md

Reviewer: We should add an entry in the SUMMARY.md file, linking this new technical article

> # Cross-Chain Bridge Documentation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# XVS Cross-Chain Bridge Documentation
```

> This documentation provides detailed instructions and explanations for using the Cross-Chain Bridge. The Bridge allows users to transfer tokens between different blockchain networks, specifically between the [BNB chain](https://www.bnbchain.org) and the Destination Chain. The supported Destination Chains are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This documentation provides detailed instructions and explanations for using the Cross-Chain Bridge. The bridge allows users to transfer tokens between different blockchain networks, specifically between the [BNB chain](https://www.bnbchain.org) and a destination chain. The supported Destination Chains are:
```

* [Ethereum](https://ethereum.org)
* [opBNB](https://opbnb.bnbchain.org)

The system consists of multiple contracts, including [XVSBridgeAdmin](https://github.com/VenusProtocol/token-bridge/blob/develop/contracts/Bridge/XVSBridgeAdmin.sol), [XVSProxySrc](https://github.com/VenusProtocol/token-bridge/blob/develop/contracts/Bridge/XVSProxyOFTSrc.sol), [XVSProxyDest](https://github.com/VenusProtocol/token-bridge/blob/develop/contracts/Bridge/XVSProxyOFTDest.sol), and [XVS](https://github.com/VenusProtocol/token-bridge/blob/develop/contracts/Bridge/token/XVS.sol) token contracts.

> **_The functionality of the protocol relies on [LayerZero](https://layerzero.network) for the seamless transfer of XVS tokens across different networks. Consequently, the security and integrity of the token on each network are subject to potential vulnerabilities inherent in the bridging mechanism. It is essential to note that these risks are a general characteristic of integrating with network bridges and do not stem from any particular weaknesses within the token implementation._**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**_The functionality of the bridge relies on [LayerZero](https://layerzero.network) for the seamless transfer of XVS tokens across different networks. Consequently, the security and integrity of the token on each network are subject to potential vulnerabilities inherent in the bridging mechanism. It is essential to note that these risks are a general characteristic of integrating with network bridges and do not stem from any particular weaknesses within the token implementation._**
```

## 1. Getting Started

> To start using the Cross-Chain Bridge, follow these steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To start using the XVS Cross-Chain Bridge, follow these steps:
```

### 1.1. Approving XVS Tokens

> Before transferring XVS tokens, you need to approve the Bridge contract on the BNB chain to spend XVS tokens on your behalf. Follow these steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before transferring XVS tokens, you need to approve the `Bridge` contract on the BNB chain to spend XVS tokens on your behalf. Follow these steps:
```

1. Call the `approve` function of the XVS token contract with the following parameters:

>    - `_spender`: Address of the Bridge contract on the BNB chain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - `_spender`: Address of the `Bridge` contract on the BNB chain.
```

   - `_amount`: Amount of XVS tokens to approve for transfer.

### 1.2. Estimating Transaction Fees

> To estimate the transaction fees required to send XVS tokens to the Destination Chain, call the `estimateSend` function of the Bridge contract with the following parameters:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To estimate the transaction fees required to send XVS tokens to the destination chain, call the `estimateSend` function of the `Bridge` contract with the following parameters:
```

> - `_dstChainId`: Destination Chain ID, [defined by LayerZero](https://layerzero.gitbook.io/docs/technical-reference/mainnet/supported-chain-ids) (e.g., Ethereum virtual chain ID (101))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `_dstChainId`: Destination chain ID, [defined by LayerZero](https://layerzero.gitbook.io/docs/technical-reference/mainnet/supported-chain-ids) (e.g., Ethereum virtual chain ID (101))
```

> - `_toAddress`: Receiver address on the Destination Chain

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `_toAddress`: Receiver address on the destination chain
```

- `_amount`: Amount of XVS tokens you want to send, defined with 18 decimals
- `_useZro`: `false` (indicating that you are not paying in LayerZero ZRO tokens)
- `_adapterParams`: `0x000100000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000493E0` (ethers.utils.solidityPack(['uint16','uint256'],[1, gasValue]) the gas value should be greater then minDestGas which is set to 300k).

## 2. Transferring Tokens

> The actual token transfer is performed using the `sendFrom` function of the Bridge contract. Follow these steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The actual token transfer is performed using the `sendFrom` function of the `Bridge` contract. Follow these steps:
```

### 2.1. Sending Tokens

<figure><img src="../../.gitbook/assets/bnb-dest1.jpg" alt="Assets bridging from src chain to dest chain"><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

> 1. Call the `sendFrom` function of the Bridge contract with the following parameters:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Call the `sendFrom` function of the `Bridge` contract with the following parameters:
```

   - `_from`: Your address on the BNB chain

>    - `_dstChainId`: Destination Chain ID [defined by LayerZero](https://layerzero.gitbook.io/docs/technical-reference/mainnet/supported-chain-ids) (e.g., Ethereum virtual chain ID (101))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - `_dstChainId`: Destination chain ID [defined by LayerZero](https://layerzero.gitbook.io/docs/technical-reference/mainnet/supported-chain-ids) (e.g., Ethereum virtual chain ID (101))
```

>    - `_toAddress`: The address on the Destination Chain where you want to receive the XVS tokens

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - `_toAddress`: The address on the destination chain where you want to receive the XVS tokens
```

   - `_amount`: Amount of XVS tokens you want to send, defined with 18 decimals
   - `_callParams`: ["RefundGasAddress", "ZROaddress", "adapterParams"]
     - `RefundGasAddress`: Address where you want to receive a refund for excessive gas sent. It can be the sender's address.
     - `ZROaddress`: `0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000` (indicating that you are not paying in ZRO tokens)
     - `adapterParams`: `0x000100000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000493E0` (ethers.utils.solidityPack(['uint16','uint256'],[1, gasValue]) the gas value should be greater then minDestGas which is set to 300k).

## 3. Receiving Tokens on the Destination Chain

> When you send XVS tokens to the Destination Chain using the Bridge, the tokens will be minted by the Bridge contract to the receiver's address on the Destination Chain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you send XVS tokens to the destination chain using the `Bridge`, the tokens will be minted by the Bridge contract to the receiver's address on the destination chain.
```

> When you send XVS tokens to the destination chain using the Bridge, the tokens will be minted by the Bridge contract to the receiver's address on the destination chain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you send XVS tokens to the destination chain using the bridge, the tokens will be minted by the `Bridge` contract to the receiver's address on the destination chain.
```

## 4. Transferring Tokens Back to the BNB chain

<figure><img src="../../.gitbook/assets/dest-bnb.jpg" alt="Assets bridging from dest chain to src chain"><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

> To transfer XVS tokens back to the BNB chain, follow a similar process as mentioned in the earlier send section. You don't need to approve the Bridge contract on the Destination Chain to spend XVS tokens on your behalf. The tokens will be burned on the Destination Chain on your behalf and unlocked and transferred to the receiver's address on the BNB chain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To transfer XVS tokens back to the BNB chain, follow a similar process as mentioned in the earlier send section. You don't need to approve the `Bridge` contract on the destination chain to spend XVS tokens on your behalf. The tokens will be burned on the destination chain on your behalf and unlocked and transferred to the receiver's address on the BNB chain.
```

## 5. Monitoring Transaction Status

> After initiating a token transfer, you should wait for the transaction to confirm. This process may take a few minutes. Once the transaction confirms, you will receive the bridged XVS tokens on the Destination Chain. You can use [LayerZero scan](https://layerzeroscan.com) to monitor your cross-chain transactions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After initiating a token transfer, you should wait for the transaction to confirm. This process may take a few minutes. Once the transaction confirms, you will receive the bridged XVS tokens on the destination chain. You can use [LayerZero scan](https://layerzeroscan.com) to monitor your cross-chain transactions.
```

## 6. Security and Risks

<figure><img src="../../.gitbook/assets/risk.jpg" alt="Risks and security"><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

### 6.1. Ownership Transfer

> - Use the `transferOwnership` method in the XVSBridgeAdmin contract to transfer ownership of the admin contract.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use the `transferOwnership` method in the `XVSBridgeAdmin` contract to transfer ownership of the admin contract.
```

> - Use the `transferBridgeOwnership` method to transfer ownership of the Bridge contract from one contract to another.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use the `transferBridgeOwnership` method to transfer ownership of the `Bridge` contract from one contract to another.
```

- Ownership control is crucial in case of emergencies or security issues.

> - The owner of the XVSBridgeAdmin contract will be initially the Guardian, but it will be transferred to Governance as soon as the the Multichain Governance module is deployed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The owner of the `XVSBridgeAdmin` contract will be initially the `Guardian`, but it will be transferred to Governance as soon as the `MultichainGovernance` module is deployed.
```

Is MultichainGovernance a contract?

### 6.2. Pause and Resume

> - The Bridge includes a pause and unpause mechanism. Use the `pause` method to halt the contract's functionality and `unpause` to resume.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `Bridge` includes a pause and unpause mechanism. Use the `pause` method to halt the contract's functionality and `unpause` to resume.
```

- Pausing is a security measure to prevent further transactions during emergencies or potential attacks.
- Cross-chain messages that attempt to mint or release tokens to the receiver can be received by the destination bridge. These messages will fail, but they can be retried once the destination bridge has been unpaused.

### 6.3. Limit the Amount of XVS Transfers

- Example: Limit the maximum XVS transfer to USD 1,000 in one transaction and USD 100,000 in one day. These limits can be adjusted using VIPs.

### 6.4. Transfer Delays

- Configurable delay after XVS transfers to the target network by specifying a minimum number of blocks in the LayerZero endpoint configuration.

### 6.5. Token Controller Contract

- [Token Controller](https://github.com/VenusProtocol/token-bridge/blob/develop/contracts/Bridge/token/TokenController.sol) contract within the XVS token deployed on the target network to blacklist addresses, preventing them from transferring or receiving XVS. Integrated with the ACM.

### 6.6. Cap on Token Minting

- Cap on the amount of tokens that can be minted in the destination target network. This feature can be integrated in Token Controller.

### 6.7. Bridge Model

> - The XVSProxyOFTDest contract serves as the bridge model. It will be authorized to mint and burn tokens in the Destination Chain. Limits on these actions will be set by Governance or Guardian.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `XVSProxyOFTDest` contract serves as the bridge model. It will be authorized to mint and burn tokens in the Destination Chain. Limits on these actions will be set by Governance or Guardian.
```

> - The XVSProxyOFTDest contract serves as the bridge model. It will be authorized to mint and burn tokens in the Destination Chain. Limits on these actions will be set by Governance or Guardian.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `XVSProxyOFTDest` contract serves as the bridge model. It will be authorized to mint and burn tokens in the destination chain. Limits on these actions will be set by Governance or the Guardian.
```

## 7. Contract Details

> Here, we provide more details about the key contracts used in the Bridge:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here, we provide more details about the key contracts used in the XVS Cross-chain Bridge:
```

### 7.1. XVSBridgeAdmin

- [XVSBridgeAdmin](https://github.com/VenusProtocol/token-bridge/blob/develop/contracts/Bridge/XVSBridgeAdmin.sol) is the admin contract for the bridge, ensuring proper setup.
- It contains a `functionRegistry` mapping for function signatures, allowing the contract to call corresponding methods in destination contracts after ensuring access control permissions.

> - Ownership transfers for XVSBridgeAdmin and Bridge can be executed via the `transferOwnership` and `transferBridgeOwnership` methods respectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Ownership transfers for `XVSBridgeAdmin` and `Bridge` can be executed via the `transferOwnership` and `transferBridgeOwnership` methods respectively.
```

### 7.2. XVSProxySrc

- [XVSProxySrc](https://github.com/VenusProtocol/token-bridge/blob/develop/contracts/Bridge/XVSProxyOFTSrc.sol) extends the [BaseOFTV2](https://github.com/LayerZero-Labs/solidity-examples/blob/main/contracts/token/oft/v2/BaseOFTV2.sol) contract and includes custom logic for token transfers.
- It overrides the `_debitFrom` and `_creditTo` functions, checking transaction limits and user eligibility.
- It enforces transaction limits, tracks 24-hour window limits, and allows whitelisting of users.

> - XVSProxySrc can be paused and resumed in emergencies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `XVSProxySrc` can be paused and resumed in emergencies.
```

### 7.3. XVSProxyDest

> - [XVSProxyDest](https://github.com/VenusProtocol/token-bridge/blob/develop/contracts/Bridge/XVSProxyOFTDest.sol) is similar to XVSProxySrc but with specific differences.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [XVSProxyDest](https://github.com/VenusProtocol/token-bridge/blob/develop/contracts/Bridge/XVSProxyOFTDest.sol) is similar to `XVSProxySrc` but with specific differences.
```

- Transaction limits are enforced primarily for outbound amounts only in the source chain.
- It overrides the `debitFrom` function to include custom logic for checking transaction limits in USD and performs an external call to the XVS token contract to burn tokens from the sender.
- It overrides the `creditTo` function to trigger an external call to the XVS token contract to mint tokens for the receiver.

> - When sending tokens from the Destination Chain to the BNB chain, it burns user tokens, with the burning logic residing in the XVS token contract.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When sending tokens from the destination chain to the BNB chain, it burns user tokens, with the burning logic residing in the XVS token contract.
```

- When receiving tokens from the BNB chain (to the Destination Chain), it mints tokens for the receiver, with the minting logic residing in the XVS token contract.

### 7.4. XVS Token

> - The [XVS](https://github.com/VenusProtocol/token-bridge/blob/develop/contracts/Bridge/token/XVS.sol) token contract is deployed on destination/Destination Chains, and it is used within the XVSProxyDest contract.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The [XVS](https://github.com/VenusProtocol/token-bridge/blob/develop/contracts/Bridge/token/XVS.sol) token contract is deployed on destination chains, and it is used within the `XVSProxyDest` contract.
```

- The XVS token follows the ERC20 standard and extends the [TokenController](https://github.com/VenusProtocol/token-bridge/blob/develop/contracts/Bridge/token/TokenController.sol) ownable contract, which contains all controlling mechanisms of the XVS.
- It is responsible for setting minting limits for the minter (in this case, the remote bridge contract).

> - When receiving transactions and tokens from the source chain's Bridge contract, an external call is made to mint tokens for the receiver.
> - When sending tokens to the source chain's Bridge contract, an external call is made from the bridge contract to burn tokens from the sender.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When receiving transactions and tokens from the source chain's `Bridge` contract, an external call is made to mint tokens for the receiver.
- When sending tokens to the source chain's `Bridge` contract, an external call is made from the `Bridge` contract to burn tokens from the sender.
```

- Offers a blacklisting feature to prevent certain users from receiving, transferring and bridging XVS tokens.
- [ACM](https://github.com/VenusProtocol/governance-contracts/blob/develop/contracts/Governance/AccessControlManager.sol) integration is used for setting minting caps and blacklisting, and these settings can be configured via VIPs or Guardian.

## 8. Additional Features

> In addition to the core functionality, the Bridge includes additional features to enhance its capabilities:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to the core functionality, the XVS Cross-chain Bridge includes additional features to enhance its capabilities:
```

         - User A holds all 100 XVS minted by BridgeA.

      2. Separate Bridge Contract B Setup:
         - Bridge Contract B (BridgeB) has a separate minterToMintedAmount of 50 XVS.
         - User B holds all 50 XVS minted by BridgeB.

      3. User B Bridges Off Tokens Using Bridge A:
         - User B decides to use BridgeA to bridge off his 50 XVS.
         - After the successful bridging process, BridgeA's minterToMintedAmount is now 50, reflecting the XVS burned by User B through this BridgeA.

      4. User A Bridges Off Tokens Using Both Bridges:
         - Now, User A intends to bridge off his 100 XVS, splitting them between BridgeA and BridgeB.
         - User A uses BridgeA for 50 XVS and BridgeB for the remaining 50 XVS.

### 6.9. Bridge Replacement Scenario
In the event that a `Bridge` contract needs replacement, such as due to a security risk, the following steps will be taken:
1. **Pause the Bridge:**
   - Temporarily pause the `Bridge` contract to prevent further transactions.

2. **Token Evaluation:**
   - Evaluate whether pausing the XVS token is necessary during the replacement process.

3. **Migrate MinterToMintedAmount:**

>    - Move the `minterToMintedAmount` value to a different `Bridge` contract address using the new `migrateMintedTokens` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Move the `minterToMintedAmount` value to a different `Bridge` contract address using the `migrateMintedTokens` function.
```

Author: [18834e1](https://github.com/VenusProtocol/venus-protocol-documentation/pull/77/commits/18834e1df425d16802df858200a639671c58b265)

# Cross-Chain Bridge Documentation

> This documentation provides detailed instructions and explanations for using the Cross-Chain Bridge. The Bridge allows users to transfer tokens between different blockchain networks, specifically between the BNB and the Destination Chain. The system consists of multiple contracts, including XVSBridgeAdmin, XVSProxySrc, XVSProxyDest, and XVS token contracts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This documentation provides detailed instructions and explanations for using the Cross-Chain Bridge. The Bridge allows users to transfer tokens between different blockchain networks, specifically between the [BNB chain](https://www.bnbchain.org) and the Destination Chain. The supported Destination Chains are:

* [Ethereum](https://ethereum.org)
* [opBNB](https://opbnb.bnbchain.org)

The system consists of multiple contracts, including [XVSBridgeAdmin](#71-xvsbridgeadmin), [XVSProxySrc](#72-xvsproxysrc), [XVSProxyDest](#73-xvsproxydest), and [XVS](#74-xvs-token) token contracts.
```

> **_The functionality of the protocol relies on LayerZero for the seamless transfer of XVS tokens across different networks. Consequently, the security and integrity of the token on each network are subject to potential vulnerabilities inherent in the bridging mechanism. It is essential to note that these risks are a general characteristic of integrating with network bridges and do not stem from any particular weaknesses within the token implementation._**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**_The functionality of the protocol relies on [LayerZero](https://layerzero.network) for the seamless transfer of XVS tokens across different networks. Consequently, the security and integrity of the token on each network are subject to potential vulnerabilities inherent in the bridging mechanism. It is essential to note that these risks are a general characteristic of integrating with network bridges and do not stem from any particular weaknesses within the token implementation._**
```

   - [6.2. Pause and Resume](#62-pause-and-resume)
   - [6.3. Limit the Amount of XVS Transfers](#63-limit-the-amount-of-xvs-transfers)
   - [6.4. Transfer Delays](#64-transfer-delays)
   - [6.5. Token Controller Contract](#65-token-controller-contract)
   - [6.6. Cap on Token Minting](#66-cap-on-token-minting)

7. [Contract Details](#7-contract-details)
   - [7.1. XVSBridgeAdmin](#71-xvsbridgeadmin)
   - [7.2. XVSProxySrc](#72-xvsproxysrc)
   - [7.3. XVSProxyDest](#73-xvsproxydest)
   - [7.4. XVS Token](#74-xvs-token)
8. [Variables and Configuration](#8-variables-and-configuration)
9. [Additional Features](#9-additional-features)
   - [9.1. Oracle Integration](#91-oracle-integration)
   - [9.2. Whitelist Mechanism](#92-whitelist-mechanism)
   - [9.3. Transaction Limits](#93-transaction-limits)
   - [9.4. Pause and Unpause Mechanism](#94-pause-and-unpause-mechanism)
10. [Possible Failures of Bridging XVS Tokens](#10-possible-failures-of-bridging-xvs-tokens)
    - [10.1. Sending XVS tokens from the source chain](#101-sending-xvs-tokens-from-the-source-chain)
    - [10.2. Receiving XVS tokens on the destination chain](#102-receiving-xvs-tokens-on-the-destination-chain)

> ## 1. Getting Started <a name="getting-started"></a>

Reviewer: We don't need to include the `<a>` item in the headers. Gitbook will do it automatically

To start using the Cross-Chain Bridge, follow these steps:

### 1.1. Approving XVS Tokens <a name="approving-xvs-tokens"></a>

> Before transferring XVS tokens, you need to approve the Bridge contract on the BNB to spend XVS tokens on your behalf. Follow these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before transferring XVS tokens, you need to approve the Bridge contract on the BNB chain to spend XVS tokens on your behalf. Follow these steps:
```

1. Call the `approve` function of the XVS token contract with the following parameters:

>    - `_spender`: Address of the Bridge contract on the BNB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - `_spender`: Address of the Bridge contract on the BNB chain.
```

   - `_amount`: Amount of XVS tokens to approve for transfer.

### 1.2. Estimating Transaction Fees <a name="estimating-transaction-fees"></a>

To estimate the transaction fees required to send XVS tokens to the Destination Chain, call the `estimateSend` function of the Bridge contract with the following parameters:

> - `_dstChainId`: Destination Chain ID (e.g., Ethereum virtual chain ID (101))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `_dstChainId`: Destination Chain ID, [defined by LayerZero](https://layerzero.gitbook.io/docs/technical-reference/mainnet/supported-chain-ids) (e.g., Ethereum virtual chain ID (101))
```

- `_toAddress`: Receiver address on the Destination Chain

> - `_amount`: Amount of XVS tokens you want to send

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `_amount`: Amount of XVS tokens you want to send, defined with 18 decimals
```

> - `_useZro`: `false` (indicating that you are not paying in layer zero ZRO tokens)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `_useZro`: `false` (indicating that you are not paying in LayerZero ZRO tokens)
```

- `_adapterParams`: `0x` (empty bytes as no custom adapter is used)

## 2. Transferring Tokens <a name="transferring-tokens"></a>

The actual token transfer is performed using the `sendFrom` function of the Bridge contract. Follow these steps:

### 2.1. Sending Tokens <a name="sending-tokens"></a>

> <figure><img src="../../.gitbook/assets/bnb-dest1.jpg" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

Reviewer: We should add descriptions in the `alt` fields of images

1. Call the `sendFrom` function of the Bridge contract with the following parameters:

>    - `_from`: Your address on the BNB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - `_from`: Your address on the BNB chain
```

>    - `_dstChainId`: Destination Chain ID (e.g., Sepolia virtual chain ID)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - `_dstChainId`: Destination Chain ID [defined by LayerZero](https://layerzero.gitbook.io/docs/technical-reference/mainnet/supported-chain-ids) (e.g., Ethereum virtual chain ID (101))
```

   - `_toAddress`: The address on the Destination Chain where you want to receive the XVS tokens

>    - `_amount`: Amount of XVS tokens you want to send

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - `_amount`: Amount of XVS tokens you want to send, defined with 18 decimals
```

   - `_callParams`: ["RefundGasAddress", "ZROaddress", "adapterParams"]

>      - `RefundGasAddress`: Address where you want to receive a refund for excessive gas sent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - `RefundGasAddress`: Address where you want to receive a refund for excessive gas sent. It can be the sender's address.
```

     - `ZROaddress`: `0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000` (indicating that you are not paying in ZRO tokens)
     - `adapterParams`: `0x` (empty bytes, as no custom adapter is used)

## 3. Receiving Tokens on the Destination Chain <a name="receiving-tokens-on-the-remote-chain"></a>

When you send XVS tokens to the Destination Chain using the Bridge, the tokens will be minted by the Bridge contract to the receiver's address on the Destination Chain.

> ## 4. Transferring Tokens Back to the BNB <a name="transferring-tokens-back-to-the-local-chain"></a>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 4. Transferring Tokens Back to the BNB chain <a name="transferring-tokens-back-to-the-local-chain"></a>
```

<figure><img src="../../.gitbook/assets/dest-bnb.jpg" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

> To transfer XVS tokens back to the BNB, follow a similar process as mentioned in the earlier send section. You don't need to approve the Bridge contract on the Destination Chain to spend XVS tokens on your behalf. The tokens will be burned on the Destination Chain on your behalf and unlocked and transferred to the receiver's address on the BNB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To transfer XVS tokens back to the BNB chain, follow a similar process as mentioned in the earlier send section. You don't need to approve the Bridge contract on the Destination Chain to spend XVS tokens on your behalf. The tokens will be burned on the Destination Chain on your behalf and unlocked and transferred to the receiver's address on the BNB chain.
```

## 5. Monitoring Transaction Status <a name="monitoring-transaction-status"></a>

> After initiating a token transfer, you should wait for the transaction to confirm. This process may take a few minutes. Once the transaction confirms, you will receive the bridged XVS tokens on the Destination Chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After initiating a token transfer, you should wait for the transaction to confirm. This process may take a few minutes. Once the transaction confirms, you will receive the bridged XVS tokens on the Destination Chain. You can use [LayerZero scan](https://layerzeroscan.com) to monitor your cross-chain transactions.
```

## 6. Security and Risks <a name="security-and-risks"></a>

<figure><img src="../../.gitbook/assets/risk.jpg" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

### 6.1. Ownership Transfer <a name="ownership-transfer"></a>

- Use the `transferOwnership` method in the XVSBridgeAdmin contract to transfer ownership of the admin contract.
- Use the `transferBridgeOwnership` method to transfer ownership of the Bridge contract from one contract to another.
- Ownership control is crucial in case of emergencies or security issues.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The owner of the XVSBridgeAdmin contract will be initially the Guardian, but it will be transferred to Governance as soon as the the Multichain Governance module is deployed.
```

### 6.2. Pause and Resume <a name="pause-and-resume"></a>

- The Bridge includes a pause and unpause mechanism. Use the `pause` method to halt the contract's functionality and `unpause` to resume.
- Pausing is a security measure to prevent further transactions during emergencies or potential attacks.
- Cross-chain messages that attempt to mint or release tokens to the receiver can be received by the destination bridge. These messages will fail, but they can be retried once the destination bridge has been unpaused.

### 6.3. Limit the Amount of XVS Transfers <a name="limit-the-amount-of-XVS-transfers"></a>

- Example: Limit the maximum XVS transfer to USD 1,000 in one transaction and USD 100,000 in one day. These limits can be adjusted using VIPs.

### 6.4. Transfer Delays <a name="transfer-Delays"></a>

> - Configurable delay after XVS transfers to the target network by specifying a minimum number of blocks in the layer zero endpoint configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Configurable delay after XVS transfers to the target network by specifying a minimum number of blocks in the LayerZero endpoint configuration.
```

### 6.5. Token Controller Contract <a name="token-controller-contract"></a>

- Token Controller contract within the XVS token deployed on the target network to blacklist addresses, preventing them from transferring or receiving XVS. Integrated with the ACM.

### 6.6. Cap on Token Minting <a name="cap-on-token-minting"></a>

- Cap on the amount of tokens that can be minted in the destination target network. This feature can be integrated in Token Controller.

### Bridge Model

> The XVSProxyOFTDest contract serves as the bridge model. It will be authorized to mint and burn tokens in the destination chain. Limits on these actions will be set by Governance or Guardian.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The XVSProxyOFTDest contract serves as the bridge model. It will be authorized to mint and burn tokens in the Destination Chain. Limits on these actions will be set by Governance or Guardian.
```

## 7. Contract Details <a name="contract-details"></a>

Here, we provide more details about the key contracts used in the Bridge:

### 7.1. XVSBridgeAdmin <a name="xvsbridgeadmin"></a>

> - XVSBridgeAdmin is the admin contract for the bridge, ensuring proper setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [XVSBridgeAdmin](https://github.com/VenusProtocol/token-bridge/blob/develop/contracts/Bridge/XVSBridgeAdmin.sol) is the admin contract for the bridge, ensuring proper setup.
```

- It contains a `functionRegistry` mapping for function signatures, allowing the contract to call corresponding methods in destination contracts after ensuring access control permissions.
- Ownership transfers for XVSBridgeAdmin and Bridge can be executed via the `transferOwnership` and `transferBridgeOwnership` methods respectively.

### 7.2. XVSProxySrc <a name="xvsproxysrc"></a>

> - XVSProxySrc extends the BaseOFTV2 contract and includes custom logic for token transfers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [XVSProxySrc](https://github.com/VenusProtocol/token-bridge/blob/develop/contracts/Bridge/XVSProxyOFTSrc.sol) extends the [BaseOFTV2](https://github.com/LayerZero-Labs/solidity-examples/blob/main/contracts/token/oft/v2/BaseOFTV2.sol) contract and includes custom logic for token transfers.
```

- It overrides the `_debitFrom` and `_creditTo` functions, checking transaction limits and user eligibility.
- It enforces transaction limits, tracks 24-hour window limits, and allows whitelisting of users.
- XVSProxySrc can be paused and resumed in emergencies.

### 7.3. XVSProxyDest <a name="xvsproxydest"></a>

> - XVSProxyDest is similar to XVSProxySrc but with specific differences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [XVSProxyDest](https://github.com/VenusProtocol/token-bridge/blob/develop/contracts/Bridge/XVSProxyOFTDest.sol) is similar to XVSProxySrc but with specific differences.
```

- Transaction limits are enforced primarily for outbound amounts only in the source chain.
- It overrides the `debitFrom` function to include custom logic for checking transaction limits in USD and performs an external call to the XVS token contract to burn tokens from the sender.
- It overrides the `creditTo` function to trigger an external call to the XVS token contract to mint tokens for the receiver.

> - When sending tokens from this contract, it burns user tokens, with the burning logic residing in the XVS token contract.
> - When receiving tokens, it mints tokens for the receiver, with the minting logic residing in the XVS token contract.

Reviewer: I know the logic under the hood and these words were not clear for me. Maybe we can add this:

```suggestion
- When sending tokens from the Destination Chain to the BNB chain, it burns user tokens, with the burning logic residing in the XVS token contract.
- When receiving tokens from the BNB chain (to the Destination Chain), it mints tokens for the receiver, with the minting logic residing in the XVS token contract.
```

### 7.4. XVS Token <a name="xvs-token"></a>

> - The XVS token contract is deployed on destination/Destination Chains, and it is used within the XVSProxyDest contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The [XVS](https://github.com/VenusProtocol/token-bridge/blob/develop/contracts/Bridge/token/XVS.sol) token contract is deployed on destination/Destination Chains, and it is used within the XVSProxyDest contract.
```

> - The XVS Token follows the ERC20 standard and extends the `TokenController` ownable contract, which contains all controlling mechanisms of the XVS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The XVS Token follows the ERC20 standard and extends the [TokenController](https://github.com/VenusProtocol/token-bridge/blob/develop/contracts/Bridge/token/TokenController.sol) ownable contract, which contains all controlling mechanisms of the XVS.
```

- It is responsible for setting minting limits for the minter (in this case, the remote bridge contract).
- When receiving transactions and tokens from the source chain's Bridge contract, an external call is made to mint tokens for the receiver.
- When sending tokens to the source chain's Bridge contract, an external call is made from the bridge contract to burn tokens from the sender.

> - Offers a blacklisting feature to prevent certain users from receiving XVS tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Offers a blacklisting feature to prevent certain users from receiving, transferring and bridging XVS tokens.
```

> - ACM integration is used for setting minting caps and blacklisting, and these settings can be configured via multisig now and VIPs in the near future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ACM](https://github.com/VenusProtocol/governance-contracts/blob/develop/contracts/Governance/AccessControlManager.sol) integration is used for setting minting caps and blacklisting, and these settings can be configured via VIPs or Guardian.
```

- `mapping(uint16 => uint256) public chainIdToMaxSingleTransactionReceiveLimit`: Maps a destination chain ID to the maximum limit (in USD) for a single transaction to receive from that chain.
- `mapping(uint16 => uint256) public chainIdToMaxDailyLimit`: Maps a destination chain ID to the maximum limit (in USD) for the total value of transactions in a 24-hour window to that chain.
- `mapping(uint16 => uint256) public chainIdToMaxDailyReceiveLimit`: Maps a destination chain ID to the maximum limit (in USD) for the total value of transactions in a 24-hour window that can be received from that chain.
- `mapping(uint16 => uint256) public chainIdToLast24HourTransferred`: Maps a destination chain ID to the total value of transactions transferred to that chain in the current 24-hour window.
- `mapping(uint16 => uint256) public chainIdToLast24HourReceived`: Maps a destination chain ID to the total value of transactions received from that chain in the current 24-hour window.
- `mapping(uint16 => uint256) public chainIdToLast24HourWindowStart`: Maps a destination chain ID to the timestamp when the current 24-hour window started for transactions to that chain.

> - `mapping(address => bool) public whitelist`: A mapping of addresses to a boolean indicating whether the address is whitelisted, exempting it from certain limits.

Reviewer: I don't think we need this section. We'll should include the natspec autogenerated pages

## 10. Possible Failures of Bridging XVS Tokens <a name="possible-failures-of-bridging-XVS-tokens"></a>

### 10.1. Sending XVS tokens from the source chain <a name="sending-XVS-tokens-from-the-source-chain"></a>

- The oracle temporarily fails due to reasons including being paused by the owner, incorrect address configuration, or price validation failures.
- The transfer amount exceeds the single or daily sending transaction limit.
- The transfer amount is too small, becoming zero after removing dust.
- The sender is blacklisted by the XVS token.
- The destination bridge is not configured as a trusted remote.

### 10.2. Receiving XVS tokens on the destination chain <a name="receiving-XVS-tokens-on-the-destination-chain"></a>

- The oracle temporarily fails due to reasons including being paused by the owner, incorrect address configuration, or price validation failures.
- The transfer amount exceeds the single or daily receiving transaction limit.
- The recipient is blacklisted by the XVS token.
- The minting cap on the destination bridge is exceeded.

## Conclusion

> This documentation provides a comprehensive guide to using the Cross-Chain Bridge, including its core functionality, contract details, admin functions, variables, and additional features. By following the provided steps and guidelines, users can seamlessly transfer tokens between different blockchain networks.

Reviewer: I would remove this section
